import { h } from 'preact';
import '../../storybook-utilities/designSystem.scss';
import { Meta } from '@storybook/addon-docs/blocks';

<Meta title="Component Library" />

# Components

Forem is a Rails application. Most of what we build for views uses ERB templates
(\*.html.erb files). We also build out parts of or sometimes complete views
using [Preact](https://developers.forem.com/frontend/preact), typically for the logged
on user experience. For example, the main page feed.

Because of that, we components that are written in pure HTML & CSS as well as
Preact.

### BEM class naming

The entire design system uses the [BEM](http://getbem.com/naming) methodology
for naming CSS classes. Even Preact components under the hood use it.

### `crayons-*`

Crayons is the name of our design system. All Crayons components use the
`crayons-` prefix. It's useful because we can easily identify what **IS** and
what **IS NOT** a Crayons component. It's also practical because Crayons was
implemented when we already had tons of other frontend classes in the codebase.
It prevents overwriting styles by other CSS and it's very unlikely someone has
ever created a `.crayons-btn` style BUT it's very likely someone has created
`.btn` style...

## HTML & CSS Components

You'll need to copy piece of html code responsible for rendering a component and
that's it. Imagine a simple button component. The code below will render a
**primary button** with specific styling:

`<button class="crayons-btn">Hello</button>`

Crayons offers different variants for a button. A button can be one of the
following variants: primary, secondary, outlined, danger, ghost, with icon, and
so on. All of the components and its variations are described in the Components
section.

Imagine you need a small (size **s** ), **secondary** type. In this case you
will need to apply specific modifier class for that:

`<button class="crayons-btn crayons-btn--secondary crayons-btn--s">Hello</button>`

## Preact Components

The same button above that was created with pure HTML using modifying classes is
also a Preact component.

`import { Button } from '@crayons'; //... <Button size="s" variant="secondary">Hello<Button>`

To import a design system component, e.g. `<Button />`, import it from
`@crayons`. Instead of modifying CSS classes, modify props, e.g.
`variant="primary"`.
