---
title: Configuring Forem
---

# Basic Configuration Guide for Forem

## Overview

As a Forem admin, one of the first steps of managing your site will be to tailor
your content, branding and other important details based on your community
goals. This is made simple by the configuration page which can be found at
https://<span></span>your.forem.url/admin/customization/config.

_We advise that you first complete the minimum set up before sending out your
Forem link to your community._

## Complete your Set Up, Configure your Forem

Once your Forem instance is set up for the first time, you will most likely see
the following banner:

![Banner prompting for configuring mandatory settings](https://dev-to-uploads.s3.amazonaws.com/i/2nosvfr7l47ymipmyh4o.png)

This banner indicates that the Forem configuration process hasn't been completed
yet.

When you click on the link on banner, it will take you to the configuration page
(i.e. https://<span></span>your.forem.url/admin/customization/config).

On this page you will see that the Get Started section is expanded. It contains
all the mandatory fields that need to be filled out in order for the site to be
in a usable state. Once it is filled out and submitted, the banner will then
disappear.

## Access and Permissions

The following permissions are required to be able to view and/or edit the config
page:

#### `Role: super_admin`

When providing this role to a user they will be able to access the config page.
However, this page will be a read only view for them. They will see the
following:

![Super Admin Permissions Role Provided](https://dev-to-uploads.s3.amazonaws.com/i/xpc8g9x46vzgi49ohc0d.png)

#### `Role: single_resource_admin`

When providing this role to a user they will be able to access the config page,
and they will be able to edit the config variables.

![Super Resource Admin Role Provided](https://dev-to-uploads.s3.amazonaws.com/i/z5v2ou64imgqonmefolk.png)

The first admin of your Forem will be given the highest permissions. Thereafter,
they can provide the necessary permissions to subsequent users via the
https://<span></span>your.forem.url/admin/permissions.

## The Configuration Sections

Currently, the configuration page is split into 3 sections. They are as follows:

- A **Get Started section** that contains all required fields. These are the
  fields that are required to be filled out, in order to get your Forem in a
  usable state.
- An **All Settings section** that contains all the possible variables that you
  can configure on the site. This section is broken down into sub sections,
  whereby each subsection will contain a description of what it does, and then
  list the fields that are available for configuration. Each field will also
  contain a concise description of what it is used for.
- An **Environment Variables section** that provides a read-only view of the
  environment variables that are available to be set on the server. If your
  instance is hosted by Forem, please get in touch with customer support to
  change any of these variables.

![The Settings Sections](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/47985/116500126-13970a00-a8d8-11eb-824e-ace66e6e05d4.png)

All required fields are marked as such. In addition, you will notice that we
have set some defaults for certain fields, you may amend them as you see
relevant for your Forem.

## Updating your configurations

In order to update any of the variables within the Get Started and All Settings
sections, you will set the new value and then navigate to the end of the section
where you will verify that you would like to make the change by typing the
following sentence:

```
My username is <specify your username here> and this action is 100% safe and appropriate.
```

You will now see your updated values and the changes on your site will be in
effect.

![Submit your data](https://dev-to-uploads.s3.amazonaws.com/i/xo0nxykuu8kw984w088n.png)
